# IMT 542 G6: Communicate how existing information is restructured to make it more portable
Em Stelter, 5/18/2026 (thank you for your patience)

### Instructions: 
Write an Availability, Limitations, Ethics and Societal Impact narrative to accompany your product.

## Availability
This is a Python-based application designed to support analysis and data visualization of fanwork metadata from Archive of Our Own. In brief, the application takes in an Archive of Our Own RSS feed for a particular fandom or intellectual property, pulls the metadata from that RSS feed, converts it to a json structure, and creates standardized data visualizations based on Ao3's fixed metadata fields (i.e. not freeform metadata tags but fields with standardized entries in Ao3's taxonomy). 

## Limitations
Insights drawn from data visualizations created with this tool should not be taken as universal truth about the nature of any particular fandom or its fan authors, as the dataset is pulled from one source of fanworks, Archive of Our Own. While Ao3 is one of the most prolific digital fanwork repositories, it is not the sole digital space where fanworks are created and shared. Additionally, Ao3 operates as a digital repository that does not censor or restrict the content of fanworks. As with all art, for myriad reasons, Ao3 authors may choose to explore uncomfortable, upsetting, or even offensive themes in their works. Insights drawn from this tool that reflect a fandom's collective exploration of objectionable ideas should not be taken as evidence of the character, values, or IRL behavior of fan authors.

## Ethics
The main ethical challenge with this project involves my choice to include metadata from Archive-locked fanworks in my dataset for visualization and analysis. Archive-locked fanworks have been access-restricted by their authors and are only accessible to other Archive of Our Own account holders. Ao3 authors archive-lock their works for a number of reasons, such as preventing or discouraging scraping of their works for AI model training (as much as this is possible), or simply for personal privacy reasons. I believe it is important to include Archive-locked fanwork metadata in this project because in some cases Archive-locked fanworks can make up a significant proportion of an Ao3 fandom's works, and my goal is to provide interested fan digital analysts with a means to accurately visualize and better understand their chosen fandom's collective works. From a Virtue Ethics standpoint, I believe in preserving the full set of metadata to represent the truth of the fandom's collective art (as much as possible). 

To address this challenge I've chosen to exclude unique identifiers for each fanwork in my dataset. This means that any users looking at the raw data in my data structure will not be able to pick out individual fanworks from the dataset and match them to certain metadata. From a Consequentialist standpoint, the goal here is to minimize harm to authors who have explicitly chosen to keep their works private from users without an Ao3 account. From a Non-Consequentialist / Deontological standpoint: theoretically a dedicated person could recreate my process and include unique URIs in their dataset. It still matters in principle to honor the authors' choices and respect their autonomy. Realistically whether another person recreates my process and includes unique URIs for people to track down is not within my control. What I can do is honor the choice of authors with Archive-locked fics in my own work to the best of my ability.

# Societal Impact
This tool is designed to support digital humanities meta-analysis for personal interest, entertainment, and study.